**Test Strategy**

**Functions:**

**Events**

1. **Create Event**

This overall function is tested using blackbox strategy "Category Partitioning ''. To create an event, 5 attributes are required, which are Event ID, Event Name, Event Location, Event Date and Attendees.

**Overall function:**

Pairwise Testing strategy is used. Attributes are paired up to be tested.

- Valid Test: All 5 attributes are valid
- Invalid Test: One of the attributes is invalid

**1.1 Event ID**

No test required, it will be auto generated by the API

**1.2 Event Name**

Boundary Value Analysis is used. The length of the name must be greater than 0. Hence tests will be made for length=0 and length\>0. Length \<0 cannot be tested as length of input cannot be a negative number.

Random testing is used. Input random name to check if it passed the test.

- Valid Test: Length of name \>0
- Invalif Test: Length of name=0

**1.3 Event Location:**

Random testing is used. Input random address to check if it passed the test.

- Valid Test: Address in American or Australian format. Abbreviated street types are also accepted.
- Invalid Test: Address that is not in American or Australian format

**1.4 Event Date**

The date will consist of three parts which are Day, Month and Year. Boundary Value Testing is used to test these three parts.

**1.4.1 Day**

Each month has different boundary values for day. Tests will be created based on their specific boundary values. The length of days must be 2. Boundary Value Testing is applied to check the input of day at the boundaries.

For all format:

- Valid Test 1: day in between 01-30 for all months except February
- Valid Test 2: day = 31 for January, March, May, July, August, October, and December.
- Valid Test 3: day in between 01-28 for February
- Invalid Test 1: day\<01 or day\>30 for all months except February
- Invalid Test 2: day\>31 for January, March, May, July, August, October, and December.
- Invalid Test 3: day\<01 or day\>28 or day\>29 for February based on year
- Invalid Test 5: day with one digit only

**1.4.2 Month**

Months can only accept integers from 01-12 or abbreviations for months in capital letters, such as JAN. Integer month must be a 2 digit value.

For format yyyy-mm-dd:

- Valid Test 1: 01\<=month
- Valid Test 2: month\<=12
- Invalid Test 1: month with 1 digit only
- Invalid Test 2: month\<01
- Invalid Test 3: month\>12

For format dd-MON-yy:

The accepted value is listed as below: "JAN, FEB, MAR, APR, MAY, JUN, JUL,AUG, SEP, OCT, NOV, and DEC only. Random testing is applied over here. Input any strings to check if the input is available in the list above.

- Valid Test: month is in [JAN, FEB, MAR, APR, MAY, JUN, JUL, AUG, SEP, OCT, NOV, and DEC]
- Invalid Test: month not is [JAN, FEB, MAR, APR, MAY, JUN, JUL, AUG, SEP, OCT, NOV, and DEC]

**1.4.3 Year**

2 formats available. Year can either be a 2 digit number or 4 digit number.

For format dd-MON-yy:

- Valid Test: year\>=00 and year\<=99
- Invalid Test: year in negative value

For format yyyy-mm-dd:

- Valid Test: year\>=0000 and year\<=9999
- Invalid Test: year is negative value

**1.4.4 Create past event**

To create events for the past, the event date should be smaller than the current date.

- Valid Test: event date\< current date

**1.4.5 Create future event**

To create events for the future, the event date should be smaller than the current date.

- Valid Test: event date\> current date

**1.4.5 Create present event**

To create an event for present dates, the event date should be equal to the current date.

- Valid Test: event date == current date

**1.5 Event Attendee**

At least one attendee is required to create an event. Boundary Value Analysis is applied, where the boundary value is 0. Negative values cannot be tested as the number of input cannot be negative.

- Valid Test: length of attendees \>0
- Invalid Test: length of attendees=0

1. **Delete event**

Events can only be deleted if the event has passed. Boundary Value analysis will be used for this function, where the boundary value is the current date.

- Valid Test: event date\< current date
- **Invalid Test: event date\<= current date !!!!**

1. **Cancel event**

Only future events can be cancelled. Boundary Value analysis will be used for this function, where the boundary value is the current date.

- Valid Test: event date\< current date
- **Invalid Test: event date\>= current date !!!!**

2. **Event Organiser**

3. **Attendees**
   Boundary Value Analysis testing was used here to reduce the number of test cases.
   Valid Test 1: At least one attendee or a maximum of 20 attendees
   Valid Test 2: Attendees can accpet or reject invitation
   Valid Test 3: Attended can request a change of time or venue of the event
   Invalid Test: Zero or more than 20 attendees given

4. **Reminders**
   Random testing on different events just to ensure the reminders are being setup, no other tests are neccesary

5. **Navigation**

6. **Navigate by Year**

Random Testing

1. **Navigate by Month**

Random Testing

1. **Navigate by Day**

Random Testing

1. **Navigate forward**

Random Testing

1. **Navigate backward**

Random Testing

1. **Search event based on Event Name**

Random Testing

1. **Search event based on Event date**

Random Testing

1. **Search event based on Event keywords**

Random Testing

2. **Attendees**

**Whitebox Testing Methods Used**

- Condition coverage
- Statement coverage
- Branch coverage
  The 3 different type of coverages can be found throughout most of the functions made and each branch is always tested
- Modified MC/DC to ensure that they are less but accurate test cases on each decision branches
- Added exception handling in order to ensure the branches are halted when it works
  against its intended functionality
